# Analyzing Climate Sentiment and Ideology in the U.S. Senate
This project investigates how political ideology and party affiliation shape climate sentiment among U.S. senators. It is important to understand these sentiments because climate change is an ongoing challenge that requires bipartisan solutions. The dataset includes tweets and public statements about climate change from U.S. senators, including the year of the statement, the senator’s state, party affiliation, and an ideology score ranging from -1 (liberal) to 1 (conservative). The data also has an independent sentiment label, which is either -1 (risk sentiment regarding climate change) or 1 (opportunity sentiment regarding climate change). Opportunity sentiment generally reflects a belief in prioritizing and engaging in the fight against climate change, while risk sentiment suggests a lack of urgency or deemphasizing the importance of addressing climate change. Sentiment analysis is used to classify the statements and LDA topic modeling is used for for deeper insight. Five models, LogisticRegression, ForestClassifier, NaiveBayes, LinearSVM, and KNNClassifier, are trained on fake tweets generated by ChatGPT and compared using cross-validation and other metrics to identify the best-performing approach. The dataset is limited to three statements per senator, which does not fully capture their sentiment on climate change. Additionally, the model's lower F1 score impacts the accuracy of visualizations, limiting their ability to represent the relationship between ideology and sentiment. A small limitation is that a few ideology scores were missing and were filled in with the median score of that party. The model performance shows that LogisticRegression, NaiveBayes, and LinearSVM had the highest accuracy (0.843, 0.851, and 0.841) and F1 scores (0.841, 0.847, and 0.839). The majority vote of these three models is used to generate the model label. 

HTML's are in the Outputs folder in EDA, and should be looked at in the order

1. sentiment_model_creation.html (building the sentiment model)
2. emotion_topic_modeling.html (applying emotional and LDA topic modeling)
3. exploratory_data_analysis.html (looking at sentiment based on indepdent labels)
4. exploratory_data_analysis_model_labels.html (comparing model label visualizations to indepdent label visualizations)
5. topic_modeling_analysis.html (topic modeling EDA)
6. emotional_analysis.html (emotion EDA)

References:

Sentiment model adapted from https://github.com/MichaelOmosebi/Sentiments-Analysis-Climate-Change

Ideology scores from https://www.c-span.org/congress/members/?congress=119&chamber=senate&find-name=all&find-state=all&find-party=all&status=freshman&sort-names=name&all

Sources for statements are in test.csv in Data folder

Emotion model from huggingface: SamLowe/roberta-base-go_emotions
